refactor: efficiency (#41)
gobitfly/eth2-knowledge-base: v2beta/metric-validator-efficiency.md

> 

Reviewer: `Note that the duty weighting is based on the consensus layer specification.&#x20;`
i mean kinda off-topic now that we do it using the rewards

Block proposals are purely luck-based, but over the long run, 12.5% (8/64) of validators' rewards come from block proposals. Blocks include execution rewards (transaction rewards + MEV rewards) and scale with the number of attestations and sync committee outputs included in a block.

> Comparing validator performance based on MEV rewards (which highly depend on market volatility) would not provide meaningful context. Thus, proposer efficiency solely depends on CL rewards. The sum of all received proposal-related rewards is divided by the possible maximum. Since this value is not trivially available, it has to be approximated. We do this by assuming the median rewards of the surrounding 32 proposals (missing skipped, 0 if none).

Reviewer: > The sum of all received proposal-related rewards is divided by the possible maximum. Since this value is not trivially available, it has to be approximated.

i get why you wrote it this way but saying its divided by a max and then explain that its approximated using a median is a bit confusing
```suggestion
Comparing validator performance based on MEV rewards (which highly depend on market volatility) would not provide meaningful context. Thus, proposer efficiency solely depends on CL rewards. To remove some volatility from the result, the received proposal-related rewards are compared to the median proposal-related reward of surrounding proposals. Specifically, the surrounding 32 proposals (missing skipped, 0 if none) of each proposal are considered to be the the median proposal reward.
```

\
This leads to the following formula:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
proposer_idealReward = max(proposer_actualReward, medianReward([x-16 ... x+16]))
proposer_efficiency = proposer_actualReward / proposer_idealReward
```
{% endcode %}

> 

Reviewer: `For this reason, the proposer efficiency will be `1` for validators who did not propose a block` 
not true anymore

Compared to attestations, which occur once per epoch, sync duties occur in every slot for 256 epochs, totaling 8192 duties per sync committee member.

Since sync duties need to be included in a block by the block proposer, we ignore missed blocks that occurred during this period to avoid penalizing the sync committee member. Penalties from missed sync participation are also not counted towards `sync_actualReward`.

This leads to the following formula

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```html
sync_efficiency = sync_actualReward / sync_idealReward
```
{% endcode %}

> 

Reviewer: `For this reason, the sync efficiency will be `1` for validators who were not elected` 
not true anymore. maybe remove these paragraphs completely, kinda not needed anymore

Compared to attestations, which occur once per epoch, sync duties occur in every slot for 256 epochs, totaling 8192 duties per sync committee member.

> Since sync duties need to be included in a block by the block proposer, we ignore missed blocks that occurred during this period to avoid penalizing the sync committee member. Penalties from missed sync participation are also not counted towards `sync_actualReward`.

Reviewer: i cant comment on it since its outside of the diff but the formula for the sync efficiency also needs to be updated

Author: math should still work as sync rewards don't use surroundings and are binary 0 or 100, but ye will change for consistency

Reviewer: it doesnt matter in the context of a single epoch but once you calculate across multiple epochs the rewards for each sync vote can change, which will cause the final weighting of those epochs to be different from each other (100%sync epoch x != 100% sync epoch y)

> {% code overflow="wrap" %}

Reviewer: i would simplify these examples as the formula being `efficiency = (attester_actualReward + proposer_actualReward + sync_actualReward) / (attester_idealReward + proposer_idealReward + sync_idealReward)`

and maybe explain the cases then with `When a validator did not participate in a sync committee and/or did not propose a block, the respective rewards & ideal rewards are set to 0`
